Add Emotion FAQ to docs (#8741)
elastic/eui: packages/website/docs/developer-guides/emotion/migrating-from-sass.mdx

Sass variables and mixins to their Emotion counterparts.

## Variables

### Sizes

For a full list of tokens, see [Sizing tokens](../../getting-started/theming/tokens/sizing.mdx).

<EuiTable>
  <EuiTableHeader>
    <EuiTableHeaderCell>Sass</EuiTableHeaderCell>
    <EuiTableHeaderCell>Emotion</EuiTableHeaderCell>
  </EuiTableHeader>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`$euiSize`</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`useEuiTheme().euiTheme.size.base`</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`$euiSizeM`</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`useEuiTheme().euiTheme.size.m`</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`$euiSizeXS`/`XL`/etc</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>All of these sizes convert to lowercase equivalents, `euiTheme.size.xs`/`.xl` etc</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>N/A</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>Note that there are 3 new sizes in our CSS-in-JS tokens to take advantage of,<br /> that may help simplify Sass math/calcs: `xxs` (2px), `xxxl` (48px) , and `xxxxl` (64px)</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
</EuiTable>

> #### Performing math on size tokens

Reviewer: **nit:**

There's some spacing issue here.

![Screenshot 2025-06-05 at 13 33 50](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bc2fc7ca-fc3e-4522-9bbd-86110179413e)

Author: It's technically how our current theme renders code blocks in lists. Let's fix it separately since this PR is content-only.

Reviewer: @tkajtoch I don't mind doing it on another issue, can we create it though? 😄

    <EuiTableRowCell>`useEuiTheme().euiTheme.colors.title`</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`$euiTextSubduedColor`</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`useEuiTheme().euiTheme.colors.subduedText`</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`$euiColorDisabled`/`$euiColorDisabledText`</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`useEuiTheme().euiTheme.colors.disabled`/`.disabledText`</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`$euiColorHighlight`</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`useEuiTheme().euiTheme.colors.highlight`</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`$euiColorGhost`</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`useEuiTheme().euiTheme.colors.ghost`<br />(consider replacing this with `fullShade/emptyShade` instead)</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`$euiColorInk`</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>
      `useEuiTheme().euiTheme.colors.ink`
      <br />(consider replacing this with `fullShade/emptyShade` instead)
   </EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
</EuiTable>

> #### Color palettes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Color palettes
```

```tsx
import { euiColorPaletteBlind, euiPaletteColorBlindBehindText } from '@elastic/eui';

// Note that these utils can be called statically / outside of hooks or react components
const visColors = euiColorPaletteBlind();
const visBackgroundColors = euiPaletteColorBlindBehindText();

const SomeComponent = () => <div css={{ color: visColors[0], backgroundColor: visBackgroundColors[1] }} />
```

For a full list of arguments, see [Color palettes](../../utilities/color-palettes/index.mdx).

<EuiTable>
  <EuiTableHeader>
    <EuiTableHeaderCell>Sass</EuiTableHeaderCell>
    <EuiTableHeaderCell>CSS-in-JS</EuiTableHeaderCell>
  </EuiTableHeader>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`$euiColorVis0`</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`euiColorPaletteBlind()[0]`</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`$euiColorVis1_behindText`</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`euiPaletteColorBlindBehindText()[1]`</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>...</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>And so forth for all numbers.</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
</EuiTable>

### Typography

> For a full list of tokens, see [Typography tokens](../../getting-started/theming/tokens/typography/index.mdx)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a full list of tokens, see [Typography tokens](../../getting-started/theming/tokens/typography/index.mdx).
```

    <EuiTableRowCell>`useEuiMinBreakpoint('m')`<br /> We recommend preferring a single min/max breakpoint, as this helps account for themes with [custom breakpoints](../../getting-started/theming/tokens/breakpoints/index.mdx#custom-values)</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
  <EuiTableRow>
    <EuiTableRowCell>Media queries beginning with `@include euiBreakpoint('xs', ...)` <br />e.g., `@include euiBreakpoint('xs', 's')`</EuiTableRowCell>
    <EuiTableRowCell>`useEuiMaxBreakpoint('m')`<br /> See above. If converted from `@euiBreakpoint`, should be a size higher than the ending size</EuiTableRowCell>
  </EuiTableRow>
</EuiTable>

Example usage:

```tsx
import { useEuiMinBreakpoint, useEuiMaxBreakpoint, useEuiBreakpoint } from '@elastic/eui';

const SomeComponent = () => {
  const cssStyles = css`
    ${useEuiMaxBreakpoint('m')} {
      color: red; /* Text will be red under the 'm' breakpoint */
    }
    ${useEuiBreakpoint(['m', 'l'])} {
      color: yellow; /* Text will be yellow between the 'm and 'xl' breakpoints */
    }
    ${useEuiMinBreakpoint('xl')} {
      color: green; /* Text will be green above the 'xl' breakpoint */
    }
  `

  return <div css={cssStyles />;
}
```

> For a list of all default breakpoints and visual demonstration of these utilities, see [Breakpoint utilities](../../getting-started/theming/utilities/breakpoints.mdx)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a list of all default breakpoints and visual demonstration of these utilities, see [Breakpoint utilities](../../getting-started/theming/utilities/breakpoints.mdx).
```

const SomeComponent = ({ isLoading, hasButton }) => {
  const euiThemeContext = useEuiTheme();

  // Conditional return before css`` is used
  if (isLoading) return <LoadingComponent />;

  // Nested hook usage
  const someButton = useMemo(() => {
    if (!hasButton) return null;

    const cssStyles = css`
      ${euiFontSize(euiThemeContext, 'l')}
      color: red;
    `;

    return <button css={cssStyles}>Conditional button</button>;
  }, [hasButton, euiThemeContext]);

  return <>{someButton}{children}</>
};
```

Alternatively, you can also take advantage of Emotion's [theme context](https://emotion.sh/docs/theming) API to obtain the current EUI theme without `useEuiTheme()` as a nice syntactical sugar shortcut. See also: [Consuming with Emotion's theming](../../getting-started/theming/theme-provider.mdx#consuming-with-emotions-theming)

```tsx
import { euiFontSize } from '@elastic/eui';
import { css } from '@emotion/react';

const SomeComponent = ({ isLoading }) => {
  if (isLoading) return null;

  return (
    <div
      css={(euiThemeContext) => css`
        ${euiFontSize(euiThemeContext, 'l')}
        color: red;
      `
    />
  );
}
```

> Please note, that if you encounter type errors with the theme parameter inside of the `css` function, you'll need to make your Plugin is set up to use Kibana's [emotion.d.ts](https://github.com/elastic/kibana/blob/main/typings/emotion.d.ts) file.

Reviewer: **suggestion:**
To avoid repetition, I'd refer to the [Typings](https://eui.elastic.co/pr_8741/docs/developer-guides/emotion/#typing) section.

```suggestion
Please refer to [Typings](https://eui.elastic.co/pr_8741/docs/developer-guides/emotion/#typing) section if you encounter type errors.
```

We have to substitute the url with relative path.

Author: This whole section needs to be rewritten since this isn't 100% valid anymore - Kibana has this set up globally now. I left it as is since it's just a copy for now.

Reviewer: And I rewritten it with my [previous suggestion](https://github.com/elastic/eui/pull/8741/files/a3d07c3820f4314c7ac2ad123fe2cd1cad4031b3#r2128622089) 😄
